Section 3 -  OCEG Membership Account Activity

OCEG is a nonprofit organization, founded in 2002,  that invented the concepts of GRC and Principled Performance to solve age old problems. In the early 2000’s there was a lot of fraud and scandals, such as  Enron, Worldcom, and Healthsouth. These scandals rocked the economy effectively evaporating millions of dollars of wealth. The root issue of failure was ineffective systems. For example, there were systems built independently to address risk, and other systems for compliance, and yet IT was completely separate from compliance and so on. OCEG founded the ideas behind the Principled Performance. This means that they venture to align Governance and strategy, Risk management, Audit and internal audit, Compliance and legal, Ethics and culture, and IT to create more effective systems. 

In addition to creating the ideas behind GRC and Principled Performance, OCEG offers GRC standards to “define the integrated collection of capabilities that enable an organization to reliably achieve objectives, address uncertainty and act with integrity”. There are a few different booklets of standards.By using standards an organization can build confidence and  ensure that they are meeting regulatory requirements. 

The GRC Capability Model 3.0 (OCEG Red Book) defines the GRC core standards. By using these standards, GRC professionals will “plan, assess, and improve their GRC capabilities in order to achieve Principled Performance.” There are four primary components of the Red Book. Professionals must first LEARN about the organization, culture, and key stakeholders in order to strategically create objectives. Make effective decisions that  address threats, requirements, opportunities. ALIGN strategy with business objectives. Professionals must PERFORM in a way that meets their objectives, and reward good behavior, and prevent and remediate undesirable behavior. Finally, REVIEW processes, and operational effectiveness to make continuous improvement.

Other standards include the GRC Assessment Tools (OCEG Burgundy Book) addresses assessing and auditing GRC capabilities, and the GRC Technology Model (OCEG Green Book) describes the technology ecosystem. 

OCEG provides many other resources including training, articles, illustrations, and ebooks to aid professionals in achieving GRC alignment and Principled Performance.There are also many incredibly valuable and informative free resources. OCEG provides webinars, and in person seminars to educate about principles of GRC management. The participants of these webinars will learn how to apply and define principles. Yet another resource provided by OCEG is GRC fundamentals online videos, GRC audit series, and GRC tech talks.  

The Pillars of Principled Performance is an approach to business to help “organizations reliably achieve objectives, address uncertainty and act with integrity.” There are three principles. An organization must initiate with a principled purpose. This means defining an organization's highest values via mission statement, goals, and values. In order to maintain the principled purpose, organizations must have principled people. The leadership of the organization must comprise of principled people with a strong character who proactively work towards goals. Finally, in order to achieve your goals, you must have a principled pathway - keep an organization on track with effective governance, risk, performance, and compliance systems.

By achieving the Pillars of Principled Performance an organization will achieve 10 Universal outcomes. This will achieve business objectives, be more aware of risk,optimize company culture, increase stakeholder confidence, better protect the organization from risk and uncertainty, reduce weakness, inspire human conduct, be proactive, improve efficiency, and optimize economic return and values. 

The Blog section of OCEG includes highly curated articles by GRC professionals. The articles are fascinating and cover various aspects related to business, governance, risk, and compliance. One article that I found interesting is titled “Three ways to maintain a professional culture” by Scott Mitchell. He outlines three ways that organizations can stay civil and maintain a strong and professional culture in today’s  turbulent and politically charged environment. 

I would highly recommend checking out OCEG and creating a free account. I found the resources not only practical and valuable, but also very interesting and informative. This website is the bible for any GRC and Principled Performance materials.
