 Section 1 – Concepts of Governance
Governance is the set of responsibilities and practices exercised by those responsible for an enterprise (e.g., the board and executive management in a corporation, the agency head for a Federal agency) to provide strategic direction, ensure that objectives are achieved, ascertaining that risks are managed appropriately and verifying that the enterprise’s resources are used responsibly. There are many different domains of governance (i.e. finance, security, IT, legal and regulatory compliance, etc.) In this section, we will be focusing on Cyber Security Governance. 
 
Cyber Security Governance is the enterprise governance of cybersecurity practices and policies to protect against cyber threats. It plays an extremely important role in achieving current security objectives and planning for future challenges. 
 
In addition to achieving security objectives, governance ensures that laws and policies are complied with. Cyber breaches can easily escalate to legal liabilities for corporations. Governance bodies have a fiduciary duty of obedience, which means that they are responsible to comply with all state, federal, and local laws. There are many laws and regulations specific to a domain. For example, HIPAA is a law that protects ePHI for medical providers, PCI DSS applies to the processing and storing of the credit card information. The members of the governance body must research which baselines and standards apply to the organizations' compliance program; they are also responsible for protecting their shareholders, employees, and stakeholders from any legal problems that can result from cyber risks  
Corporate Governance takes the idea of governance one step further by balancing the interests of a company’s many stakeholders, including shareholders, executives, customers, financiers, the government, and the community. In addition to complying with laws and standards, corporate governance supports the core infrastructure of an organization. Stakeholders demand a high level of compliance and transparency, and security regulations are constantly changing. Additionally, the security risks are very real; cyber threats are exponentially growing. To keep up with these demands, it is integral for an organization to have a strong system of rules, practices, and processes by which the firm is controlled. 
Corporate governance ensures that plans, policies, and procedures help align an organization’s internal compliance program to regulatory requirements.  Aligning the wheels of a tire can prevent many problems.  Similarly, when a company’s risk management, technology, and security are lined up with each other, it can ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. 
It is not enough to ensure the alignment of GRC principles, and the different risks, techniques, and management activities. It is also important to ensure that GRC activities support and align with the business objectives while addressing uncertainty and acting with integrity.  We need to ensure that our efforts are addressing real threats, opportunities, and requirements. How can we strategize to keep our organization agile, and lean? How can we establish Key Performance Indicators for Governance, Risk, and Compliance (KRI’s, KPI’s, KCI’s)? How can we ensure complete compliance of mandated and regulatory requirements?
Just like we have tools and mechanisms to align the wheels of a vehicle, there is the technology and standard tools that a GRC team can use to align their focus. Here are some basic corporate governance documents that a business may develop related to information security or data protection.
Governance plan - an effective plan provides a framework for design standards, information architecture, service level agreements, infrastructure maintenance, and your overall measurement plan.  It should also include the company’s vision statement, roles and responsibilities, guiding principles, and policies, and standards. 
Service Level Agreements - A critical part of any technology vendor relationship is a Service Level Agreement.  This agreement defines expectations for the level of service of the vendor. It quantitatively measures clear metrics to ensure quality, as well as monetary compensation if agreed-on service levels are not achieved. 
Business Impact Assessment - The Business Impact Analysis (BIA) identifies time-sensitive activities in an organization, and establishes business continuity requirements to ensure that critical processes will not be interrupted. During this process supporting resources, dependencies are identified, and recovery time targets are set.
 Governance plays an extremely important role in an organization, by not only achieving current business objectives but also planning and securing the future
 
 
